# Variables Modifiers, Qualifiers, and Storage classes
In C++, variables can be modified and qualified using various modifiers, qualifiers, and storage classes.

These elements help control the behavior, scope, and storage allocation of variables within a program.

## Modifiers
We have 4 main modifiers in C/C++:
- long
- short
- unsigned
- signed

We can use data type modifiers with **int**, **double** and **char** data types.
### long
**long** is used to increase the length of a data type to **4** more bytes. We can use **long** with **int** and **double** data types. Let’s use a **long** modifier with built-in data types.

```cpp
int integer = 2147483649;   // it will have value of -2147483647
long int long_integer = 2147483649; // it will have the correct value
```

### short
**short**  decreases the available length of a data type to 2 bytes. We can use **short** with an **int** data type.

```cpp
int integer = 32768;   // it will have the correct value
short int short_integer = 32768;  // it will have value of -32768
```

### unsigned
**unsigned** allows us to store positive values only. We can use unsigned with **char** and **int** data types. With **unsigned int**, we can store any value from **0 to 4294967295**. With **unsigned char**, we can store any value from **0 to 255**.

```cpp
int integer = -10;  // it has a value -10
unsigned int unsigned_integer = -10;  // it has a value 4294967286

char character = 'A'; // it has a value A
unsigned char unsigned_character = 'B'; // it has a value B
```

### signed
**signed** allows us to store both positive and negative values. We can use **signed** with **char** and **int** data types.With **signed int**, we can store any value from **-2,147,483,648 to 2,147,483,647**. With **signed char**, we can store any value from **-128 to 127**.

```cpp
int integer = -10;  // it has a value -10
signed int signed_integer = -10;  // it has a value -10

char character = 'A'; // it has a value A
signed char signed_character = 'B'; // it has a value B
```

## Qualifiers

### Type qualifiers
- **const**: which makes the variable immutable, so its value can not be changed.
- **volatile**:  which marks an object that may be changed by another process, this is commonly used for threaded and multi-user applications that share memory.
- **mutable**: this is used to modify a data member from a const qualified member function. (only C++)

### const

In C++, we can use the **const** keyword to declare a constant. 
Declares a variable as constant. It means the variable's value cannot be changed once it's initialized. The basic syntax for creating a constant is:

```cpp
// const data_type identifier = const_value;
const int number = 10;
```

> In C/C++, you have to initialize a constant at the time of its declaration. If you don’t initialize a constant at the time of creating it, an error will occur.

### volatile

Indicates that a variable's value can be changed unexpectedly by external sources (hardware, threads, etc.). It prevents the compiler from optimizing code involving that variable.

```cpp
volatile int sensorValue = 0;
```

### mutable

Applies to class members. It allows a member of an object to be modified even if the object is declared as const.
```cpp
class Example { 
	public: 
		mutable int counter; // Mutable variable within a const object 
		// ... 
};
```

## Storage class
- **auto**: this is the default storage class.
- **static**: objects stored in a static memory have a life beyond the execution of a block, it is commonly used for keeping state between usages of a given function.
- **register**: to store the processor register, it is a suggestion for the compiler, maybe use it or not.
- **extern**: extern variables are defined in a separate translation unit and are linked together by the linker.

### auto

The storage class “Auto” is applied to the local variables and is automatically assigned by the compiler to local variables. Local variables preceded by the ‘auto’ keyword remain active in the function in which they are declared and go out of scope once the function exits.
Automatically deduces the data type of a variable from its initializer.
```cpp
auto value = 10; // Deduces value as an int
```

### static

Alters the lifetime and visibility of a variable. It preserves the variable value between function calls and is accessible only within the current scope.
The static storage class tells the compiler to maintain the value of the variable throughout the lifetime of the program. Static variables are similar to the local variables but are preceded by a **static** keyword.

```cpp
void exampleFunction() { 
	static int num = 0; 
	// Static variable retains its value between function calls 
	// ... 
}
```

### register

Suggests to the compiler that a variable should be stored in a CPU register for faster access. However, modern compilers often optimize this automatically.

```cpp
register int count;
```

### extern

Used to declare a variable that is defined in another translation unit (typically another source file). It allows multiple files to access the same variable.

```cpp
// In File1.cpp
extern int sharedValue; // Declaration 

// In File2.cpp 
int sharedValue = 10; // Definition
```


These modifiers, qualifiers, and storage classes provide flexibility and control over how variables are declared, defined, and used in C++ programs, ensuring proper behavior, optimization, and data integrity.

## Initialization

There are 2 ways to initialize a variable in modern C++:
- Using `=` (Assignment Initialization)
- Using `{}` (Brace/List Initialization)

### Assignment
This is the traditional way of initializing variables. You assign a value to a variable using the `=` operator.
``` cpp
int x = 10;
double y = 3.14;
std::string name = "Alice";
```
- It provides a clear and familiar way to assign values.
- It allows implicit type conversions, which can be useful but also potentially risky if unintended conversions occur.
### Brace/List
Brace initialization, introduced in C++11, is a uniform way of initializing variables. It helps prevent certain types of errors, such as narrowing conversions.
``` cpp
int x{10};
double y{3.14};
std::string name{"Alice"};
std::vector<int> numbers{1, 2, 3, 4};
```
- **Prevents Narrowing Conversions:** Brace initialization will trigger a compile-time error if a narrowing conversion is detected (e.g., `int x{3.14};` will fail).
- **Uniform Syntax:** It provides a uniform way to initialize all types, from simple data types to complex objects.
- **Consistency and Safety:** It reduces the likelihood of bugs by enforcing stricter type checks and avoiding unintentional type conversions.

> 3 Types must be initiated in C++
> - auto
> - const
> - referenece &
> 	- Note: Reference is always const, so you can not re-reference an reference. (you can not reassign it to any other value), but its value is not constant
> 	- And it is best practice to declare a reference as const to avoid unintentional edit to the value.
