# Microprocessor Unit (MPU) 
It is a general purpose CPU (Central Processor Unit), its function is to **fetch the instructions** from the memory, **decode and execute them**, so the microprocessor alone is useless.

- CPU is consisted of:
	- ALU
	- Control unit
	- Registers
	- Interconnections
		- Data bus: data carrying wires
		- Address bus: address carrying.
		- Control bus: read/write control signals carrying wires

### ALU
Arithmetic Logic Unit, is an integrated circuit within a CPU or GPU (Graphics Processing Unit) that performs **arithmetic** and **logic** operations.
- Arithmetic:
	- Addition
	- Subtraction
	- Shifting
- Logic:
	- NOT
	- AND
	- OR
	- XOR

### Registers
Register are the fastest types of memories, it is used to facilitate CPU operations
The are 2 types:
- General Purpose Register (GPR) (R0, R1, .... , R31)
- Special purpose registers:
	- Program counter (PC)
	- Instruction Register (IR)
	- Instruction decoder (ID)
	- Status Register (SREG)
	- Accumulator Register (ACC)
	- Stack Pointer (SP)
	- Index Register (X, Y)

### Control Unit
The control unit is the circuitry that controls the flow of data through the processor, and coordinates the activities of the other units within it.
In other words it is in charge of the entire instructions (machine) cycle.

#### Instruction lifecycle

``` mermaid
graph TD
    B(Fetch Instruction) --> C(Decode Instruction)
    C --> D(Execute Instruction)
    D --> F(Write Back)
    F --> B
```

Program counter register points to the instruction to be executed.
- Fetching: Fetch the instruction from the memory and store it in the Instruction Register.
- Decoding: decode the instruction into commands
- Executing: ALU execute the instructions.
- Store: Writing the result to the memory.

 Every instruction has:
 - operator code ( which determines what will be done).
 - operands  (which define the data to be used in the operation)
 To access the data the ALU needs to access the memory by one of the addressing mode. 

##### Memory Addressing mode
- **Direct**: The CPU read from the address of the memory in the instruction.
- **Indirect**: The CPU read from the address inside the register you pass in the instruction.
- **Base**: The CPU will read from the address = index register + offset (Passed in the instruction).

#### Pipelining
The instruction lifecycle is sequential, which is a bit slow.
if we supposed that fetch, decode, and execute take **1 clock cycle each**, then to perform **3 instructions we need 9 clock cycles**.

Pipelining is a process of **Arrangement of hardware** elements of the CPU such that its **Overall performance is increased** by making the same clock cycle execute, decode, and fetch.

>Cycle 1: F1
>Cycle 2: ID1, IF2
>Cycle 3: EX1, ID2, IF3
>Cycle 4: STORE1, EX2, ID3, IF4
>Cycle 5: STORE2, EX3, ID4, IF5
....

Pipelining will:
- **Increased Throughput**: Multiple instructions are processed simultaneously, increasing overall instruction throughput.
- **Reduced Latency**: Each stage processes a part of the instruction, reducing the time it takes for each instruction to be completed.
##### Pipelining Hazards
- Structural hazards: it is a resource conflict situation, when more than one instruction tries to access the same resource in the same cycle.
- Data hazards: when instruction depends on result of prior instruction which still in the pipeline.
- Control hazards: Caused by delay between the fetching of instructions and decisions about changes in control flow (branches and jumps).
>Solution to these hazards is by adding delays.
