
## Futures Options
Futures options is another futures trading type enable buying or selling of options contracts at a specific price (strike price) on or before the expiration date of the option.


### Call option & Put option
Call option is making a contract option from Low to high price (Long) for asset on expiration date
Put option is making an option contact form low to high price (Short) for asset on expiration date 

To buy(Call) or sell(Put) option you have to specify 4 things:
- Asset
- Strike price
- Expiration date
- Premium (The cost of the options contract) (Paid upfront)

> (Buying a call)Buy a call: Right to buy shares of the stock at the strike price
> (Writing a call)Sell a call: Obligation to sell shares of a stock at the strike price
> Buy a put: Right to sell shares of the a stock at the strike price
> Sell a put: Obligation to buy shares of a stock at the strike price.

When you start the contract you have the right to buy or sell, but when you end (sell) the contract you have the obligation to buy or sell the 100 shares of the contract.

#### Expire or Exercise
Expire :If you let the contract expire retching the expiry date
Exercise: execute the contract sell it or buy it.
#### Premium
is the maximum amount you can lose.
- In case of Call:
It is the cost of contract in case of call
- In case of Put:
it is the price of the put options pays to the seller (writer), determined by:
	- current market price, the strike price the expiration date, market volatility, and interest rates.
### Process
If the price of asset is 70$

call -> 70$ and strike price is 75$ next day + (premium 3$ / 1 coin) = 1 coin = 73$
	if next day the price is 75$ = 75 - 73 = 2$ profit
    if next day the price is 70$ = 70 - 73 = -3$ only the premium
	if next day the price is 60$ = 60 - 73 = -3$ only the premium
> Call option risk is limited to the premium paid. in case of expiration.

put -> 70$ and strike price is 60$ next day + (premium 3$ / 1 coin)
	if next day the price is 50$ = 60$ - 50$ - 3$ = 10$ - 3$ = 7$ profit (Exercise)
	if next day the price is 60$ = 60$ - 60$ - 3$ = 0$ - 3$ = -3$ (Expire)
	if next day the price is 70$ = 70$ - 60$ - 3$ = 0$ - 3$ = -3$ (Expire)

### Wheel strategy

- Idea: Get paid while you wait to buy a stock
> You need to select an asset you want to own, and it is bullish in time.


### Steps:
1- Sell a (Put) lower than the current price
	- if the price does not reach the strike price(still above) (you are not owning the asset but you will gain the margin)
	- if the price goes down than strike price (you will get the asset with the asked price + profit the margin) 
2- Now you have the assets higher than the market price !? -> start the Wheel
3- Sell a (Call) higher than the current price
	- if the price go down (does not reach the strike price (lower than)) You did not sell the asset so you still paid the asset price, but you will get the premium as a profit.
	- if the price reach or above the strike price, then you will have to sell the asset with the strike price (even if it is higher) and gain the asked price and the margin.
4- go to the step one :)

# Resources
[The "Wheel" Options Strategy](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EcsErh9Airs)

