## Threat
Any circumstance or event that can negatively impact assets.
- like social engineering attack

## Risk
Anything that can impact the confidentiality integrity, or availability of an asset.
- **High-risk asset**: Information protected by regulations or laws, which if compromised would have a severe negative impact on an organization's finances, ongoing operations, or reputation.
- **Medium-risk asset**: Information that's not available to the public and may cause some damage to the organization's finances, reputation, or ongoing operations.
- **Low-risk asset**: information that would not harm the organization' s reputation or ongoing operations, and would not cause financial damage if compromised.

## Vulnerability
A weakness that can be exploited by a threat.

## Threat Actor:
is any person or group who presents a security risk.

A **hacker** is any person who uses computers to gain access to computer systems, networks, or data.
- Authorized hackers are also called ethical hackers.
- Semi-authorized hackers are considered researchers.
- Unauthorized hackers are also called unethical hackers.
- vigilantes : Their main goal is to protect the world from unethical hackers.
**Hacktivists** are threat actors that are driven by a political agenda.

**Insider threats** abuse their authorized access to obtain data that may harm an organization.

**Advanced persistent threats** (APTs) have significant expertise accessing an organization's network without authorization.

Security Posture
An organization's ability to manage its defense of critical assets and data, and react to change.