
**Security frameworks** are guidelines used for building plans to help mitigate risk and threats to data and privacy. Frameworks support organizations’ ability to adhere to compliance laws and regulations. For example, the healthcare industry uses frameworks to comply with the United States’ Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA), which requires that medical professionals keep patient information safe.

**Security controls** are safeguards designed to reduce _specific_ security risks. Security controls are the measures organizations use to lower risk and threats to data and privacy. For example, a control that can be used alongside frameworks to ensure a hospital remains compliant with HIPAA is requiring that patients use multi-factor authentication (MFA) to access their medical records. Using a measure like MFA to validate someone’s identity is one way to help mitigate potential risks and threats to private data.

## NIST Cybersecurity Framework (CSF) 
National Institute of Standards and Technology - Cybersecurity Framework (CSF)
A voluntary framework that consists of standards, guidelines, and best practices to manage cybersecurity risk.
Guidelines used for building plans to help mitigate risk and threats to data and privacy, it provides a structural approach to implementing a security life cycle.
Frameworks have four core components:
- identifying and documenting security goals.
- setting guidelines to achieve security goals.
- implementing strong security processes.
- monitoring and communicating results
Organizations often uses framework to create there own security policies and processes.
NIST S.P.800-53 : A unified framework for protecting the security of information systems within the federal government.
Consists of five important core functions:
- Identify
- Protect
- Detect
- Respond
- Recover
**Identify**: the management of cybersecurity risk and its effect on an organization's people and assets.

**Protect**: The strategy used to protect an organization through the implementation of policies, procedures, training, and tools that help mitigate cybersecurity threats.

**Detect**: Identify potential security incidents and improving monitoring capabilities to increase the speed and efficiency of detections.

**Respond**: Making sure that the proper procedures are used to contain, neutralize, and analyze security incidents, and implement improvements to the security process.

**Recover**: The process of returning affected systems back to normal operation.

## NIST Risk Management Framework (RMF)
National Institute of Standard and Technology (NIST) RMF to manage risks, threats and vulnerabilities.
7 steps:
- **Prepare** : Activities that are necessary to manage security and privacy risks before a breach occurs.
- **Categorize**: Used to develop risk management process and tasks.
- **Select**: Choose, customize and capture documentation of the controls that protect an organization.
- **Implement**: Implement security and privacy plans for the organization.
- **Assess**: Determine if established controls are implemented correctly.
- **Authorize**: Being accountable for the security and privacy risks that may exist in an organization.
- **Monitor**: Be aware of how systems are operating.
## Cyber Threat Framework
Cyber Threat Framework (CTF) is a common language for describing and communicating information about cyber threat activity.



ISO/IEC 27001 (International Organization for Standardization) / International Electrotechnical Commission
the ISO 27000 family standards enables organizations of all sectors and sizes to manage the security of assets.

It outlines requirements for an information security management system, best practices and controls that support an organization's ability to manage risks.




## Security Controls
Are the safeguards designed to reduce specific security risks. they are the measures organizations use to lower risk and threats to data and privacy.
By three type of controls:
- Encryption
- Authentication
- Authorization

Encryption is the process of converting data from a readable format (plan-text) to an encoded format (Cipher-text). it used to ensure confidentiality of sensitive data.

Authentication is the process of verifying who someone or something is.
- Mult-factor Authentication (MFA)
- Security code
- biometrics
	- fingerprint
	- voice
	- face scan
Can be exploit by vishing 

Authorization is the concept of granting access to specific resources within a system (the person has permission to access)

physical controls:
- Gates, fences, and locks
- Security guards
- Closed-circuit television (CCTV), surveillance cameras, and motion detectors
- Access cards or badges to enter office spaces

technical controls:
- Firewalls
- MFA
- Antivirus software

administrative controls:
- Separation of duties
- Authorization
- Asset classification