Linux is open-source operating system by Linus Toravalds as a revolutionary Kernel from UNIX operating system

Richard Stallman started working on GNU which is an operating system based on UNIX.

Stallman shared Torvalds' goal of creating software that was free and open to anyone. 
After working on GNU for a few years, the missing element for the software was a kernel. 
Together, Torvalds' and Stallman’s innovations made what is commonly referred to as Linux.


## Components of Linux
- User: the person interacting with a computer
- Applications
- Shell
- Filesystem Hierarchy Standard
- Kernel
- Hardware

User: linux is a multiuser system, so multiple users can use the system resources at the same time.

Application: A program that performs a specific task. ex: nano
- Package manager: is a tool that helps users install, manage, and remove packages or applications.

Shell: The command-line interpreter.( it process the commands and output the results).

FHS: The component of the Linux OS that organizes data.

Kernel: The component of the Linux OS that manages processes and memory. 
- It communicate with the hardware to execute the command sent by the shell.
- It uses drivers to enable the applications to execute tasks.

Hardware: The physical components of a computer (CPU, Mouse, Keyboard).
- Peripheral Devices are hardware components that are attached and controlled by the computer system
- Internal Hardware are components required to run the computer.
	- RAM (Random Access Memory) (Short term memory)
	- Hard drive (Long term memory)

### Distributions
The different versions of Linux (Flavors), Different distributions are used for different reasons because it contain different preinstalled programs, user interfaces, and much more.
- Linux kernel
- Utilities
- Package management system
- Installer
> Different Linux distributions use the same kernel.

Parent distributions:
- Red Hat, Enterprise Linux, (CentOS)
- Slackware (SUSE)
- Debian (Ubuntu and KALI LINUX)

## KALI LINUX
It is the trademark of Offensive Security and Debian derived.
Open source distro for penetration testing and digital forensics in mind.

**Penetration test**: A simulated attack that helps identify vulnerabilities in systems, networks, websites, applications, and processes.

Penetration Testing tools in KALI LINUX:
- Metasploit: look for and exploit vulnerabilities on machines.
- Burp Suite: weaknesses in web applications.
- John the Ripper: Guess passwords.

**Digital Forensics**: The practice of collecting and analyzing data to determine what has happened after an attack.

Digital Forensics tools in KALI LINUX:
- tcpdump: command line packet analyzer.
- Wireshark: GUI packet analyzer.
- Autopsy: Analyze hard driver and smartphones.
- Suricata: Network analysis tool used to for intrusion detection.

### Ubuntu
Open-source, user-friendly distribution used in security and other industries.

### Parrot
Open-source, Debian based, similar to KALI LINUX with pre-installed penetration testing and digital forensics software.
User-friendly GUI and CLI.

### Red Hat (Enterprise Linux)
Subscription-based distributions of Linux build for enterprise use.

### AlmaLinux
A community-driven Linux distribution to replace the CentOS 8 (December 2021)

## Package Manager
A **package** is a piece of software that can be combined with other packages to form an application. Some packages may be large enough to form applications on their own.

**package manager** is a tool that helps users install, manage, and remove packages or applications. Linux uses multiple package managers.
- Red Hat Package Manager (RPM) (extensions = .rpm)
- dpkg (Debian pakage) for Debian (extensions = .deb)


Package manager tool:
- APT (Advanced Package Tool): Debian
- YUM (Yellowdog Updater Modified): Red Hat


## Shell
The command line interpreter, it helps to communicate with the OS through the command line.

Command is an instruction telling the computer to do something
Types:
- Bourne shell,
- (bash) Bourne-Again Shell
- (csh) C shell
- (tcsh) Enhanced C shell
- (ksh) Korn Shell
- (zsh) Z shell

**Standard Input**
Information received by the OS via the command line.

**Standard Output**
Information returned by the OS through the shell

**Standard Error**
Error messages returned by the OS through the shell

``` bash
echo hello
expr 32 - 8
clear
```

**Command argument**: is a specific information needed by a command

FHS (Filesystem Hierarchical System): the root directory is the highest-level directory in linux "/"
## Filesystem Hierarchy Standard (FHS)

The FHS organizes data
- File path is the location of a file or directory
	- Absolute file path (from root)
	- relative file path (from the current directory) (.) for current, (../) for previous.
- /: Root directory is the highest directory in Linux
- /home: each user in the system gets their own home directory
- /etc: configuration directory
- /tmp: stores many temporary file (attackers can modify data in these file)
- /mnt: Mount and stores media (USB, hard drives)

> 'man hier' will gives you the directory descriptions.

#### Navigate file system:
- **pwd** print the working directory onto the screen.
- **ls** Displays the names of the files and directories.
- **cd** Change directory. 
	- (cd ..) for up directory

#### Reading file content
- **cat** Displays the content of a file
- **less** like cat but one page at a time.
	- space bar (next page)
	- b (back page)
	- Down arrow (next line)
	- Up arrow (up line)
	- q (Quit)
- **head** Displays the beginning of the a file (10 lines)
	- head -n 'number of lines'
- **tail** Displays the ending of the file. 

### Filtering
- grep: searches a specified file and returns all lines in the file containing a specified string.
``` bash
grep OS updates.txt
```

- | piping: it sends the standard output of one command as standard input to another command for further processing.
	- echo > filename: to send the echo output to the filename
	- echo >> file: to append the file.

- find: command searches for directories and files that meet specified criteria.
	- find ./ -name "file name"
	- find ./ -iname "non case sensitive name"
	- find ./ -mtime -1 "file name"
		- find by days
	- find ./ -mmin +10 "file name"
		- find by minutes

#### Modify directories and files
- **mkdir**: creates a new directory
- rmdir: removes a directory
- touch: creates a new file
- rm: removes a file
- mv: moves a file
- cp: copy a file

### Permissions
The type of access granted for a file or directory

Authorization:
The concept of granting access to specific resources in a system.

Permissions in Linux:
1. Read (r)
	1. For files means that you can read the file
	2. For folders means you can read files inside this folder
2. Write (w)
	1. For files means you can modify this file
	2. For folders means you can create a new files in this folder
3. Execute (x)
	1. for files allow it to execute if it is executable.
	2. Allows entering (`cd`) the directory and accessing files inside.

Owners in Linux:
1. User
2. Group: every user is a part of certain group.
3. Other: All other users to the system

Permissions is presented with 10 character string:
drwxrwxrwx
d: is the file type (directory), (-) a file
rwx: user permission
rwx: group permission
rwx: Others permission

ls -l : display permissions and file options
ls -a: display the hidden files and directories

### Change permissions
- chmod: (Change Mode) changes permissions on files and directories
- Symbolic Mode:
	- chmod g+w,o-r access.txt (add write to group and remove read from Others)

### Add and Delete users

Authentication: is the process of a user proving that they are who they say they are in the system

**Root user (superuser)** is a user with elevated privileges to modify the system.
He can create, modify or delete any file or any program.

2 ways to be superuser:
- Logging in as root:
	- It is bad practice because it is a security risk (The root account should be disabled).
	- It easy to make irresolvable mistakes by type a mistake command (permanently delete a directory).
	- There is no way to track who exactly ran a command. ( you should use sudo from normal user account).
- "sudo" It is temporarily grants elevated permissions to specific users. (super user do), the user has to be listed in the sudoers file to be able to run commands as superuser.

**useradd** to add user to the system (Only sudo user can add users).
``` bash
sudo useradd newusername
sudo useradd -g security newusername # primary group
sudo useradd -G finance newusername # supplemental group
```
**usermod** to modifies existing user accounts
``` bash
sudo usermod -g security newusername
sudo usermod -G finance newusername # Will replace the group
sudo usermod -a -G finance newusername # will append (-a only with -G)
```
- -d: change the user's home directory
- -l: change the user's login name
- -L: locks the account so the user can't login.

**userdel** to remove user from the system
``` bash
sudo userdel oldusername
```
**groupdel** to remove a group
``` bash
sudo groupdel groupname # will delete the users too.
```


- **chown**: change ownership of a file or directory
``` bash
sudo chown newuser access.txt
sudo chown :security access.txt
sudo chown newuser:security access.txt
```


## Shell Help
**man**: (manual) Display information on other commands and how they work
- man hier (manual hierarchy) : for the filesystem

**whatis** : Displays a description of a command on a single line

**apropos**: Searches the manual page descriptions for a specified string.
- apropos password: will list all the commands that has password in the man files or it.
- apropos -a change password: will list the commands with change password (filter)