A Weakness in an asset that can be exploited by threat agents.
because of:
- Hardware or Software misconfiguration
- Default configuration.
- Insecure or poor design of the network and application
- Insecure patch managements.
- Inherent technology weaknesses.
- Bugs in the OS.
- Unnecessarily enabled services. 
- Careless approach of end users.

Anything that are vulnerable to attack and can lead to compromise an asset.

## Risk
It refers to the potential loss or damage that can occur when threat to an asset exist in the presence of a vulnerability that can be exploited.

Risk = Asset + Threat + Vulnerability

You can not get rid of all your risks, so we always do a risk management to mitigate the risk.

## Vulnerability Classification
- Misconfigurations/Weak Configurations
- Default Installations/Default Configurations
- Application Flaws
- Poor Patch Management
- Design Flaws
- Operating System Flaws
- Default Passwords
- Zero-Day Vulnerabilities
- Legacy Platform Vulnerabilities
- System Sprawl/Undocumented Assets
- Improper certificate and Key management
- Third-party Risks.

**Misconfiguration/Weak Configurations**:
when you install software with an easy in use in mind not security, it is the most common vulnerability and is mainly caused by human error. it allows attacker to break into a network and gain unauthorized access to the system.
- Network Misconfiguration
	- Insecure Protocol
	- Open Ports and Services
	- Errors
	- Weak Encryption
- Host Misconfigurations
	- Open Permissions
	- Unsecured Root Accounts

**Application Flaws**:
Are vulnerability in applications that are exploited by the attackers, flawed applications pose security threats such as data tempering and unauthorized access to configuration stores.
- Buffer Overflows
- Integer Overflows
- Race Conditions.
- Memory Leaks
- Null Pointer/Object Dereference
- Resource Exhaustion
- DLL Injection
- Improper Input Handling
- Improper Error Handling

**Poor Patch Management**:
A patch is a small piece of software designed to fix problems, security vulnerabilities, and bugs as well as improve the usability or performance of a computer program or its data.
Software vendors provide patches that prevent exploitations and reduce the probability of threats exploiting a specific vulnerability.
- Unpatched Servers
- Unpatched Firmware
- Unpatched OS
- Unpatched Applications.


**Design Flaws**
Design vulnerabilities such as incorrect encryption or the poor validation of data refer to logical flaws in the functionality of the system that attackers exploit to bypass the detection mechanism and acquire access to a secure system.
- Poor coding practices
- Sloppy programming.

**Operating System Flaws**
Due to vulnerabilities in the operating system, applications such as Trojan, Worms, and viruses pose threats.
These attacks use malicious code, script, or unwanted software, which result in the loss of sensitive information and control of computer operations.
Ex: Microsoft SMP protocol

**Default Password**
Manufacturers provide users with default passwords to access the device during its initial set-up, which users must change for future use, if the users forget to update the passwords, they make device and systems vulnerable to brute force and dictionary attacks.

**Zero-Day Vulnerabilities**
Unknown vulnerabilities in software/hardware that are exposed but not yet patched.
These vulnerabilities are exploited by the attackers before being acknowledge and patched by the software developers or security analysts.

**Legacy Platform Vulnerabilities
They are caused by obsolete or familiar codes.
Legacy platforms are usually not supported when patching technical assets such as smartphones, computers, IoT devices, OSes, applications, databases, firewalls, IDSes, or other network components.
This type of vulnerabilities can cause costly data breaches for organizations.

**System Sprawl/Undocumented Assets**
When you have a devices on the network but you are not count them for security because of an increased number of system or server connections.
Which make them susceptible to attacks.

**Improper Certificate and Key Management**
That allow attackers to perform password cracking and data exfiltration attack because of outdated keys or a private key used with certificates are not stored in a highly secured environment.

**Third Party Risks**
Third-party services or products can have access to privileged systems and applications, through which financial information, customer and employee data, and processes in the enterprise's chain can be compromised.
- Vendor Management
- Supply-chain Risks
- Outsourced Code Development
- Data Storage
- Cloud-based vs. On-premises Risks.