
## Reconnaissance Attacks
Attackers attempt to discover information about the target network.
using:
- Social Engineering
- Port Scanning
- DNS Footprinting
- Ping Sweeping

Information can be attacked:
- Domain Name
- Internal Domain Names
- Network Blocks
- IP Addresses of the Reachable systems
- Rogue Websites/Private Websites
- Open Ports
- Versions of Running OSes
- Running TCP and UDP Services
- Access Control Mechanisms and ACLs
- Networking Protocols
- VPN Points
- Running Firewalls
- Analog/Digital Telephone Numbers
- Authentication Mechanisms
- System Enumeration.

## Network Scanning
a set of procedures used for identifying hosts, ports, and services in a network.
It is one of the components of intelligence gathering which can be used by an attacker to create a profile of the target organization
To discover:
- Live hosts, IP address, and open ports of live hosts
- Operating systems and system architecture
- Services running on hosts
- vulnerabilities in live hosts.

## DNS Foorprinting
DNS records provide important information about the Location and types of servers, and we can determine key hosts in the network and can perform social engineering attacks.
- A: points to host's IP address
- MX: points to domain's mail server
- NS: points to host's name server
- CNAME: Canonical naming allows aliases to a host
- SOA: indicate authority for a domain
- SRV: Service records
- PTR: Maps IP address to a hostname
- RP: Responsible person
- HINFO: Host information record includes CPU type and OS
- TXT: Unstructured test records.

>DNS zone file transfers: a single zone file transfer, that has a full footprint for DNS information.

There are public and internal DNS zone file

Tools: DNSdumpster

## DNS Poisoning
Domain name server poisoning is the unauthorized manipulation of IP address in the DNS cache.
A corrupted DNS redirects a user requests to a malicious website to perform illegal activities.

## Domain Hijacking

is an attak in which the domain ownership is changed to the attacker's server without the consent to the actual owner.
The attacker attempts to infiltrate the domain register account using techniques such as phishing or social engineering.

## Packet Sniffing
It is the process of monitoring and capturing all data packets passing through a given network using a software application or hardware device.

It allows an attacker to observe and access the entire network traffic from a given point in order to gather sensitive information such as Telnet passwords, email traffic, syslog traffic, etc..

## MiM attacks
Man in Middle attack is used to intrude into an existing connection between systems and intercept the messages being exchanged

By split the TCP connection into 2 connections:
- Client-to-attacker connection
- Attacker-to-server connection
Which enable the attacker to read, modify and insert fraudulent data into the intercepted communication.

Tools: Cain & Abel

## ARP Spoofing Attack
it is layer 2 attack which using address resolution protocol which is protocol used for mapping an ip address to physical machine address which is recognized in the local network..
ARP spoofing/poisoning involves sending a large number of forged entries to the target machine's ARP cache.

You are personating ARP responses and achieve a MiM attach by poisoning the ARP caches of your victim.

## DHCP Starvation Attack
Is a process of inundating DHCP servers with fake DHCP requests and using all the available IP address.
That results a DoS attack (Denial of Service) where the DHCP server cannot issue new IP address to genuine host requests.

## DHCP Spoofing Attack
The attacker sets up a rogue DHCP server on the network and reponds to DHCP requests with bogus IP address resulting in compromised network access.
This after the DHCP starvation attack.
the attacker sends a TCP/IP setting to the user after knocking him out from the genuine DHCP server.

## MAC Spoofing 
MAC Spoofing/Duplicating/Cloning
I launching sniffing a network for MAC address of clients who are actively associated with a switch port and re-using one of those address.

"Spoofing" is falsifying information

MAC spoofing typically be used to circumvent filtration controls on a wireless access point or to hide the actual physical address.

## MAC Flooding
It flooding of the CAM table (Content Addressable Memory table in the layer 2 switch) with fake MAC address and IP pairs until it is full, this will make the switch act as a hub by broadcasting packets to all machines on the network, and therefore the attacker can sniff the traffic easily.

Tool: macof, a linux tool that floods the switch's CAM tables (131,000 per min) by sending bogus MAC entries
``` bash
macof -l eth0 -n 10
```


## IP Spoofing
Changing the source IP address so that the attack appears to be coming from someone else.
When the victim replies to the address, it goes back to the spoofed address rather than the attacker's real address.

``` bash
Hping3 www.certifiedhacker.com -a 7.7.7.7
```

## DoS / DDoS
Denial-of-Service attack is an attack on a computer or network that reduce, restricts, or prevents accessibility of system resources to its legitimate users.

Attackers flood the victim system with non-legitimate service requests or traffic to overload its resources.

1D -> single source (one attacker)
2D -> Multiple resources DDoS (Distributed Denial-of-Service) using Botnet (100 ~ 1000s) devices

tools: hping3

## DRDoS
Distributed Reflection Denial-of-Service (DRDoS) Attack
also know as spoofed attack, involves the use of multiple intermediary and secondary machines that contribute to the actual DDoS attack against the target machine or application.

Attacker launch this attack by sending requests to the intermediary hosts by spoofing the target IP, which when redirect the requests to the secondary machines, which in turn reflect the attack traffic to the target.

## Malware Attacks
Malware are software programs or malicious code that install on a system without the user's knowledge.

A malware attack disrupts services, damages systems, gethers sensitive information, etc..
Ex: viruses, trojans, adware, spyware, rootkits, and backdoors.


## APTs
Advanced Persistent Threats are defined as a type of network attack , where an attacker gains unauthorized access to a target network and remains undetected for a long period of time. to obtain sensitive information (Classified documents, user credentials, Credit Card information, business strategy ...).


## Physical Attacks
- Malicious Universal Serial Bus (USB) Cable
- Malicious Flash Drive
- Card Cloning
- Skimming

## Adversarial Artificial Intelligence (AI)
Is a new technology attack vector designed by attackers with malicious intent to mislead AI models.