## Injection Flaws
Injection flaws are web application vulnerabilities that allow untrusted data to be interpreted and executed as part of a command or query.
Constructing malicious commands or queries that result id data loss or corruption, lack of accountability or denial of access.
- SQL Injection: Malicious SQL queries into user input forms
- Command Injection: malicious code through a web application
- LDAP injection: malicious LDAP statements

## XSS
Cross-site Scripting
XSS or CSS attacks exploit vulnerability in dynamic generated web pages.
by inject client-side script into web pages viewed by other users.

It occurs when unvalidated (unsanitized) input data is included in dynamic content that is sent to user's web browser for rendering.

## Parameter Tampering Attack
manipulation of parameters exchanged between client and server in order to modify application data such as user credentials and permissions, price, and quantity of products.

Tools: Burp Suite

## Directory Traversal Attacks
In directory traversal attacks, attackers use the ../ (dot-dot-slash) sequence to access restricted directories outside the web server root directory.
Attacker can use the trial and error method to navigate outside the root directory and access sensitive information in the system.
``` bash
http://server.com/script/..%5c../Windows/System32/cmd.exe?/c+dir+c:\
```

## DNS Amplification Attack
Attacker takes advantage of the DNS recursive method of DNS redirection to perform DNS Amplification attacks

## Application-level DoS Attack
Attackers exhaust available server resources by sending hundreds of resource-intensive requests such as retrieving large image files or requesting dynamic pages that require expensive search operations on the backend of database servers.

## CSRF
Cross Site Request Forgery attack exploit web page vulnerabilities that allow an attacker to force an unsuspecting user's browser to send malicious request they did not intend.

The victim holds an active session with a trusted site and simultaneously visits a malicious site, which injects an HTTP request for the trusted site into the victim user's session, compromising its integrity.

## SSRF
Server Site Request Forgery attack
it has a type called XXE: XML External Entity attack that can occur when a misconfigured XML parser allows applications to parse XML input from an unreliable source.

Attacker can refer a victim's web application to an external entity by including the reference in the malicious XML input which enables the attacker to access protected files and services from servers or connected networks.

## Watering Hole Attack
Attacker waits for the victim to fall into a trap, similar to a lion waiting for its prey to arrive at a watering hole to drink water.
When the victim surfs through the infected website, the webpage redirects to a malicious server, leading to malware being downloaded to the victim machine, compromising the machine as well as the network / organizaiton.

## Application Level Session Hijacking/ Session Replay Attack
In a session replay attack, the attacker listens to the conversation between the user and the server and captures the authentication toke of the user.

Once the authentication token is captured, the attacker replays the request to the server with the captured authentication token and gains unauthorized access to the server.


## API Attacks
Application Programming Interface attacks:
- Fuzzing
- Invalid Input attacks
- Injection Attacks
- Insecure SSL Configuration
- Insecure Direct Object References (IDOR)
- Insecure Session/Authentication Handling
- Login/Credential Stuffing Attacks
- API DDoS attacks

## SSL (Secure Socket Layer) Stripping
SSL Stripping or SSL downgrading is a technique of demoting the website security from HTTPS to the less secure HTTP. which exposes websites to data manipulation and eavesdropping, forcing them to redirect to a malicious HTTP server.


## Malicious Code or Script Execution
**PowerShell**: attackers often use fileless malware that can be integrated into running applications using a PowerShell script
**Python**: If any vulnerable server, application, or webpage is exposed on the web, script kiddies can take advantage of python scripts downloaded from open-source platforms to intrude into the target server.

## Password Cracking
To gain unauthorized access to vulnerable systems. (single factor authentication)
Most of the password cracking techniques are successful because of weak or easily guessable passwords
- Offline password cracking
- Online password cracking.

Dictionary, hybrid, brute forcing attacks, rainbow tables
- Dictionary Attack: is loaded into the cracking application that runs against user accounts
- Brute-Force Attack: it tries every combination of characters until the password is broken.
- Rule-based Attack: Is used when the attacker gets some information about the password (Upward, and lower case, minimum number of characters, ...)
- Rainbow table: a precomputed table that contains word lists like dictionary files, brute force lists, and their hash values.

## Hash Injection/Pass-the-Hash (PtH) Attack
attacker is inject a compromised hash into a local session and use the hash to validate network resources.
1. The attacker finds and extracts a logged-on domain admin account hash
2. The attacker uses the extracted hash to log on to the domain controller


## Buffer Overflow
Is an attack on the absence of bounds checking for specific functions, typically in the C programming language.
Buffer overflow or overrun is a common vulnerability in an application or programs that accepts more data than the allocated buffer.

Attacker exploit buffer overflow vulnerability to inject malicious code into the buffer to damage files, modify program data, access critical information, escalate privileges, gain shell access,...

why this vulnerability:
- Lack of boundary checking
- Using older version of programming language
- Using unsafe and vulnerable functions
- Lack of good programming practices
- Failing to set proper filtering and validation principles
- Executing code present in the stack segment
- Improper memory allocation
- Insufficient input sanitization.
> When you allowed to submit very long input that floods into adjacent memory locations out of the receive buffer and overrides sensitive areas of memory.


## Privilege Escalation
An attacker can gain access to the network using a non-admin user account and the next step would be to gain administrative privileges.
1. Horizontal Privilege Escalation: Acquiring the same privileges that have already been granted , by assuming the identity of another user with the same privileges
2. Vertical privilege Escalation: Gaining higher privileges than those existing.


## DLL Hijacking/Injection
Most windows application do not use the fully qualified path when loading an external DLL library.
If attacker can place a malicious DLL in the application directory, it will be executed in place of the real DLL.

Tools: Robber, PowerSploit: they can detect the hijackable DLLs and perform DLL hijacking on the target system.


## Driver Manipulation
We have 2 ways to make the driver malicious:
1. Refactoring
2. Application Shimming

Refactoring is the process of modifying the non-functional code of driver software without affecting the actual operation of the driver. by modify the control blocks, variables, and other internal parts of a program without effecting the actual execution flow of the program which hide the malicious programs in the driver software and easily evade antivirus solutions.

Application shimming allows programs or drivers created for XP to be compatible with Windows 10, Shims applications like RedirectEXE, injectDLL, and GetProcAddress can be used by attacker to escalate privileges, install backdoors, disable Windows Defender, etc...