It is the art of convincing people to reveal confidential information, because people are unaware of the valuable information to which they have access and are careless about protection.

**Vishing**: Using voice technology: telephone system, VoIP, etc..

**Eavesdropping**: Unauthorized listening of conversations, or reading of message (Interception of audio, video, or written communication)

**Shoulder Surfing**: Direct observation techniques such as looking over someone's shoulder to get information such as passwords, PINs, account numbers, etc.
Dumpster Diving: looking for treasure in someone else's trash.

**Reverse Social Engineering**: The attacker presents himself as an authority and the target seeks his advice before or after offering the information that the attacker needs.

**Piggybacking**: An authorized person intentionally or unintentionally allows an unauthorized person to pass through a secure door, (I forget my ID badge at home, please help me).

**Tailgating**: The attacker wearing a fake ID badge, enters a secured area by closely following an authorized person through a door that requires key access.

**Hoax Letters**: Emails that issue warnings to the user about new viruses, Trojans, or worms that may harm the user's system

**Spam Email**: irrelevant, unwanted, and unsolicited emails that attempt to collect financial information , social security numbers and network information.

**Instant chat messenger**: gathering personal information by chatting with a selected user online to get information such as birth dates and maiden names.

**Phishing**: sending an illegitimate email claiming to be from a legitimate site in an attempt to acquire a user's personal or account information.

**Credential Harvesting**: Attackers employ TTPs such as phishing campaigns, password dumping tools, and MITM attacks to perform credential stuffing. Using this technique, attackers not only steal the victim's credentials but also sell the victim's personal and financial information on the dark web.

Typosquatting: Attackers register domain names with intentionally misspelled versions of well-known websites to send unsuspecting visitors to malicious websites. When a victim enters a misspelled URL on the web browser, the web browser automatically loads a malicious website controlled by the attacker, and the victim is lured into entering their sensitive details.

Elicitation: A technique of extracting information from the victim by drawing them into normal and disarming conversations.

Identity Theft: 