In the context of IoT devices hardware can be divided into two categories
- General devices
- Sensing devices

## General devices
They are doing the embedded processing and connectivity for the platforms, They are connected either by wired network or wireless interfaces, They are the main component for data collection and information processing like home appliances.

## Sensing devices
They are the sensors and the actuators that are responsible to solve the common problems.
The actuators are a special devices from sensors, they working as interface between sensors and the machines to collect various like humidity and light intensity.

### Edge layer
The edge layer is responsible for computing the information which have been collected from the sensors, which typically sits between the cloud and the sensor, and they are the layers that store intermittent and transfer of information.

### Backend server
The backend server of the cloud processes the information which have been sent from the edge devices.

## Type of sensors
The sensors and actuators are the chief component of IoT, the sensors can measure **temperature**, humidity, light intensity and other key parameters of home environment.

## Device Management Platform
The second most crucial aspect of IoT is device management platform **DMP**, which is a platform through which these assets interact with the software layer through network gateways.
It comes with a various functionalities which include:
- Firmware upgrade
- Security patching
- Reporting of metrics
- Alert mechanism
Overall it is an important aspect of the management of the device penetration 

## Connectivity Devices
Connectivity devices or connectivity blocks collectively is considered as the backbone of an IoT setup, there are various connectivity layers like:
- USB, CAN protocols, and Modbus
- The next generation protocols are WiFi, LoRA, and ZigBee
They can interface with any application or modules as small device embedded in an object.

