They are four layers of IoT architecture.
- IoT Devices layer
- IoT Gateway or Aggregation layer
- Processing Engine or Event Processing Layer
- Application Layer or API Management

## IoT Devices layer
This layer includes all the components like sensors with the ability to sense, compute, and connect other devices. 

## IoT Gateway or Aggregation layer
To aggregate data from various sensors and it is responsible for the communication between the IoT devices and the Cloud using (MQTT/HTTP)

## Processing Engine or Event Processing layer
It has a numerous algorithm and data processing elements that are ultimately displayed on the dashboard. This layer basically processes the data obtained from the sensor layer.

## Application Layer or API Management layer
It acts as an interface between third-party application and infrastructure, and it is has the Web portal, Dashboard, and API manager


The entire architecture is supported by **Device manager** and **Identity and Access manager** which are useful for security of the architecture.

# IoT Reference Architecture

## Device layer
The device layer is the main component where are various devices like sensors that are interconnected, some example are Bluetooth connected via mobile phone and ZigBee via ZigBee gateway, or even a raspberry pi that is connected to the ethernet via Wi-Fi, that is directly connected to the communication layer which are part of the second layer.

## Communication layer
The communication layer or gateway layer has **REST protocols** and other application level protocols (MQTT/HTTP), both layers are tightly coupled and generate enormous amount of data.

## The aggregation layer
Or the Bus layer acts as a message broker, it forms a bridge between the data and the communication layer for the sensors.
this is an important layer for 3 reasons:
- It supports a HTTP server and or MQTT broker.
- It aggregates and combine communications via gateway.
- It bridges and transforms data between different protocols.

## Event Processing and Analytics Layer
It is drives data and provides transformation to the data generated, it provides the ability to do event processing the data is stored in the database

## Application layer or API Management layer
it is the client layer that is used to create a web-based engine (Web portal) to interact with the external APIs, this can be fed into the API management systems.
This layer helps to create a dashboard and provide a view of the analytics and event processing.
This layer helps to communicate with the systems outside the network using machine to machine communication.

## Device Manager layer
To enable cross function architecture and provides a single platform for remote management the device manager communicate with through set of protocols:
- XMPP
- MQTT
- COAP
And it uses device management agents for remote management of software.

## Identity and Access manager Layer
It has the capabilities of cyber security including police control and OAuth 2 Token Issuance and other capabilities include Identity services:
- XACML/PDP
- Directory of users (Directory Service) LDAP

