

## Security Controls
Are the safeguards designed to reduce specific security risks.
- Technical
- Operational
- Managerial

Technical control types include the many technologies used to protect assets (Encryption, authentication systems, and others).

Operational controls include maintaining the day-to-day security environment (For people). (awareness training and incident response).

Managerial controls are centered around how the other two reduce risks (policies, standards, procedures)

### Information privacy
The protection from the unauthorized access and distribution of data.

### Information security (InfoSec)
The practice of keeping data in all states away from unauthorized users.

The key difference: Privacy is about providing people with control over their personal information and how it's shared. Security is about protecting people’s choices and keeping their information safe from potential threats.

#### Security controls 
are the technologies used to regulate information privacy.

#### Separation of duties
Divides tasks and responsibilities among different users to prevent giving a single user complete control over critical business functions.

#### Principle of least privilege (NIST SP 800-53: AC-6)
The concept of granting only the minimal access and authorization required to complete a task or function.
- Limiting access to sensitive information
- Reducing the chances of accidental data modification, tampering, or loss
- Supporting system monitoring and administration

Which relay of differentiating between 
- data owners 
- data custodians.

##### Data Owners
the person that decides who can access, edit, use, or destroy their information.

##### Data custodian
Anyone or anything that's responsible for the safe handling, transport, and storage of information. (people, organizations, their systems)

##### Privilege creep
Users accumulate more access privileges than they need over time.
Prevent it by privilege audits

##### Account change audits
Account directory service keep records and logs associated with each user 
- Directory service can be configured to alert system administrator of suspicious activity.

