## Data Lifecycle
It is an important model that security teams consider when protecting information. It influences how they set policies that align with business objectives.
- Collect
- Store
- Use
- Archive
- Destroy

### Data Governance
It is a set of processes that define how an organization manages information. To keep data private, accurate, available and secure throughout its lifecycle.
Data governance policies commonly categorize individuals into a specific role:
- **Data owner:** the person that decides who can access, edit, use, or destroy their information.
- **Data custodian**: anyone or anything that's responsible for the safe handling, transport, and storage of information.
- **Data steward**: the person or group that maintains and implements data governance policies set by an organization.

Governments and other regulatory agencies have bridged this gap by creating rules that specify the types of information that organizations must protect by default:

- **PII** (Personally identifiable information) refers to information that can be used to contact or locate someone.
- **SPII** (Sensitive Personally identifiable information) falls under stricter handling guidelines that should only be accessed on a need-to-know basis, such as a bank account number or login credentials.
- **PHI** (Protected Health Information) information that relates to the past, present, or future physical or mental health or condition of an individual.
	- In USA: HIPAA (Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act).
	- In EU: GDPR (General Data Protection Regulation)
	- PCI DSS: (Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard)


## Data classification types

- **Public data**
- **Private data**
- **Sensitive data**
- **Confidential data**

**Public data** is already accessible to the public and poses a minimal risk to the organization if viewed or shared by others.
Data include press releases, job descriptions, and marketing materials.

**Private data** is information that should be kept from the public.
Data include company email addresses, employee identification numbers, and an organization’s research data.

**Sensitive data** is information must be protected from everyone who does not have authorized access.
Data include personally identifiable information (PII), sensitive personally identifiable information (SPII), and protected health information (PHI). Examples of these types of sensitive data are banking account numbers, usernames and passwords, social security numbers, passwords, passport numbers, and medical information.

**Confidential data** often has limits on the number of people who have access to it.

Access to confidential data sometimes involves the signing of non-disclosure agreements (NDAs)— legal contracts that bind two or more parties to protect information—to further protect the confidentiality of the data.

Data include proprietary information such as trade secrets, financial records, and sensitive government data.


- **Data owner** is the person that decides who can access, edit, use, or destroy their information.
- **Data controllers** determine the procedure and purpose for processing data.
- **Data processors** report directly to the data controller and are responsible for processing the data on behalf of the data controller.
- **Data custodians** assign and remove access to software or hardware.
- **Data protection officers** (DPOs) are responsible for monitoring the internal compliance of an organization’s data protection procedures.