After Containment, Eradication and Recovery phase of the NIST Incident Response Lifecycle.
there is Post-incident activity which is **the process of reviewing an incident to identify areas for improvement during incident handling**.

## Lessons learned
Incidents provide organizations and their security teams with an opportunity to learn from what happened and prioritize ways to improve the incident handling process.

This is typically done through a **lessons learned meeting**, also known as a **post-mortem**.

The purpose of this meeting is to evaluate the incident in its entirety, assess the response actions, and identify any areas of improvement.

This meeting consists of all parties who participated in any aspect of the incident response process. Here are some examples of questions that are addressed in this meeting:
- What happened?
- What time did it happen?
- Who discovered it?
- How did it get contained?
- What were the actions taken for recovery?
- What could have been done differently?

>Before a team hosts a lessons learned meeting, organizers should make sure all attendees come prepared. The meeting hosts typically develop and distribute a meeting agenda beforehand, which contains the topics of discussion and ensures that attendees are informed and prepared.


## Recommendations
A lessons learned meeting should result in a list of prioritized actions or actionable recommendations meant to improve an organization’s incident handling processes and overall security posture.

Examples of changes that can be implemented include updating and improving playbook instructions or implementing new security tools and technologies.

## Final report
he final report provides a comprehensive review of an incident. Final reports are not standardized, and their formats can vary across organizations. Additionally, multiple final reports can be created depending on the audience it’s written for. Here are some examples of common elements found in a final report:

- **Executive summary**: A high-level summary of the report including the key findings and essential facts related to the incident
- **Timeline**:  A detailed chronological timeline of the incident that includes timestamps dating the sequence of events that led to the incident
- **Investigation**: A compilation of the actions taken during the detection and analysis of the incident. For example, analysis of a network artifact such as a packet capture reveals information about what activities happen on a network.
    
- **Recommendations**: A list of suggested actions for future prevention