Containment Eradication & Recovery
the third phase of the incident response lifecycle.
- **Containment** is the act of limiting and preventing additional damage caused by an incident.
- **Eradication** involves the complete removal of the incident elements from all affected systems. 
	- performing vulnerability tests and applying patches
- **Recovery** is the process of returning affected systems back to normal operations.


## Business continuity planning (BCP)
is a document that outlines the procedures to sustain business operations during and after a significant disruption.

A BCP helps organizations ensure that critical business functions can resume or can be quickly restored when an incident occurs.

## Disaster Recovery Plans (DRP)
Disaster recovery plans are used to recover information systems in response to a major disaster. These disasters can range from hardware failure to the destruction of facilities from a natural disaster, like a flood.


**Resilience** is the ability to prepare for, respond to, and recover from disruptions.
There are three types of recovery sites used for site resilience:

- **Hot sites**: A fully operational facility that is a duplicate of an organization's primary environment. Hot sites can be activated immediately when an organization's primary site experiences failure or disruption.
    
- **Warm sites**: A facility that contains a fully updated and configured version of the hot site. Unlike hot sites, warm sites are not fully operational and available for immediate use but can quickly be made operational when a failure or disruption occurs.
    
- **Cold sites**: A backup facility equipped with some of the necessary infrastructure required to operate an organization's site. When a disruption or failure occurs, cold sites might not be ready for immediate use and might need additional work to be operational.