Log is a record of events that occur within an organization's systems.

Log Details:
- Date
- Time
- Location
- Action made
- Names of users or systems

Logs allow analysts to build a story and timeline around various event occurrences to understand what exactly happened.

## Log Analysis
The process of examining logs to identify events or interest.

## SIEM tools
Security Information Event Management provide security professionals with a high-level overview of what happens in a network.

- Collecting data from multiple data source.
- Data get aggregated or centerlaized in on place.
- Normalize the log formats

### Log types:
- **Network**: Network logs are generated by network devices like firewalls, routers, or switches.
- **System**: System logs are generated by operating systems like Chrome OS™, Windows, Linux, or macOS®. 
- **Application**: Application logs are generated by software applications and contain information relating to the events occurring within the application such as a smartphone app.
- **Security**: Security logs are generated by various devices or systems such as antivirus software and intrusion detection systems. Security logs contain security-related information such as file deletion.
- **Authentication**: Authentication logs are generated whenever authentication occurs such as a successful login attempt into a computer.


**Log management** is the process of collecting, storing, analyzing, and disposing of log data.

### **What to log**
Some information, including but not limited to phone numbers, email addresses, and names, form personally identifiable information (PII), which requires special handling and in some jurisdictions might not be possible to be logged.

### **Overlogging**
overlogging can increase storage and maintenance costs. Additionally, overlogging can increase the load on systems, which can cause performance issues and affect usability, making it difficult to search for and identify important events.

### **Log retention**
some regulations require organizations to retain logs for set periods of time and organizations can implement log retention practices in their log management policy.

- Public sector industries, like the Federal Information Security Modernization Act (FISMA)
- Healthcare industries, like the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA)
- Financial services industries, such as the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (PCI DSS), the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (GLBA), and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (SOX)

### **Log protection**
It’s not unusual for malicious actors to modify logs in attempts to mislead security teams and to even hide their activity.

Storing logs in a centralized log server is a way to maintain log integrity. When logs are generated, they get sent to a dedicated server instead of getting stored on a local machine. This makes it more difficult for attackers to access logs because there is a barrier between the attacker and the log location.


## Log format
Commonly used log format is Syslog
- **Syslog** is both a protocol and a log format as a protocol it transports and writes logs, and has 3 sections.
	-  Header: Timestamp, Hostname, the application name and Message ID.
	- Structured-Data: Addintinal data information in key-value pairs.
	- Message: the detailed log message about the event.
- **JSON**: Javascript Object Notation: it uses key-value pairs to structure data
- **XML**: eXtensile Markup Language: it uses **tags** and other keys to structure data.
- CSV: Comma Separated Values: which is using separator like commas to separate data values.
- CEF: Common Event Format: that uses key-value pairs to structure data and identify fields
``` md 
Sep 29 08:26:10 host CEF:1|Security|threatmanager|1.0|100|worm successfully stopped|10|src=10.0.0.2 dst=2.1.2.2 spt=1232
```