is a set of standards that define communications for wireless LANs
- IEEE (Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers)

Wi-Fi is a marketing term commissioned by the Wireless Ethernet Compatibility Alliance (WECA), (Wi-Fi Alliance)
## Wired Equivalent Privacy (WEP)
in 1999 designed to provide users with the same level of privacy on wireless network connections as they have on wired network connections.
**it’s now considered a high-risk security protocol**

## Wi-Fi Protected Access (WPA)
in 2003 to improve upon WEP with backwards compatibility with older hardware.
WPA addressed WEP weakness by using a protocol called Temporal Key Integrity Protocol (TKIP) which uses larger secret keys and includes a message integrity check that includes a message authentication tag.

Malicious actors can use a key reinstallation attack (or KRACK attack) to decrypt transmissions using WPA. Attackers can insert themselves in the WPA authentication handshake process and insert a new encryption key instead of the dynamic one assigned by WPA. If they set the new key to all zeros, it is as if the transmission is not encrypted at all.

## WPA2
in 2004 using the Advanced Encryption Standard (AES) and Counter Mode Cipher Block Chain Message Authentication Code Protocol (CCMP) which provides encapsulation and ensures message authentication and integrity. 

Because of the strength of WPA2, it is considered the security standard for all Wi-Fi transmissions today.

WPA2, like its predecessor, is vulnerable to KRACK attacks. This led to the development of WPA3 in 2018.
- Personal mode: The global passphrase for WPA2 personal version needs to be applied to each individual computer and access point in a network.
- Enterprise: The initial setup is more complicated than WPA2 personal mode, but enterprise mode offers individualized and centralized control over the Wi-Fi access to a business network.
## WPA3
in 2018 addresses the authentication handshake vulnerability to KRACK attacks, uses Simultaneous Authentication of Equals (SAE), a password-authenticated, cipher-key-sharing agreement.
using 128-bit encryption, with WPA3-Enterprise mode offering optional 192-bit encryption.