## Firewall
A firewall is a network security device that monitors traffic to and from your network.

It either allows traffic or it blocks it based on a defined set of security rules by port filtering 
- Hardware firewall: the most basic way to defend against threats to a network.
- Software firewall makes the same functions as a hardware, but not a physical device, instead it is a software installed on a computer or a server.
- FaaS (Firewall as a service): cloud based firewalls that are hosted by a cloud service provider.

### Stateful or Stateless
Refers to how the firewall operates
- stateful: the firewall keeps track of information passing through it and proactively filters out threats.
- Stateless: the firewall operate based on predefined rules and does not keep tracking of the information from the data packets.

### Next generation Firewall (NGFW)
it provide more security than stateful firewall, it provide stateful inspection of incoming and outgoing traffic, and more in-depth security like deep packet inspection and intrusion protection.
it can also connect to cloud-based threat intelligence services to update and protect against emerging cyber threats.

## VPN, Zones
Virtual Private Network (VPN) is a network security service that changes your public IP address and hides your virtual location.

So that you can keep your data private when you are using a public network like internet.

It **encrypt** your data as it travel across the internet to preserve confidentiality.

Also performing **encapsulation** which is a process performed by a VPN service that protects your data by wrapping sensitive data in other data packets.

It uses an encrypted tunnel between your device and the VPN server which is unhackable wihtout a cryptographic key.

- Remote Access: it is between personal device and VPN server through internet.
- Site-to-Site: Enterprise use it to extend their network to other networks and location. IPSec protocol is commonly used in the site-to-site.
- WireGuard VPN: it high speed VPN protocol with advanced encryption, Used in site-to-site and Remote access (Client-server connections). (Open-Source).
- IPSec VPN: Most VPN providers use IPSec to encrypt and authenticate data packets. One of the earlier VPN protocols, more complex.

### Security Zones
A segment of a network that protects the internal network from the internet.

Part of security technique called network segmentation.

Organization network divided in to subnets and it has 2 types:
- Uncontrolled Zone: Any network outside of the organization's control.
- Controlled Zone: A subnet that protects the internal network from the uncontrolled zone.
	- Demilitarized Zone (DMZ): contains the public-facing services that can access the internet. (Web servers, DNS servers, proxy servers, email, and files servers, ...)
	- Internal Network: Contains the private servers and data that the organization needs to protect.
		- Restricted Zone: it is inside the internal network with higher confidential infromation that is only accessible to specific employess.

### Subnet
is the subdivision of a network into logical groups, it works like network inside a network.
Subnetting is one component of creating isolated subnetworks through physical isolation, routing configuration, and firewalls.

Classful addressing was used in the 1980s as a system of grouping IP addresses into classes (Class A to Class E), Each class included a limited number of IP addresses, which were depleted as the number of devices connecting to the internet outgrew the classful range in the 1990s

Classless Inter-Domain Routing (CIDR) is a method of assigning subnet masks to IP addresses to create a subnet. Classless addressing replaces classful addressing. Classless CIDR addressing expanded the number of available IPv4 addresses.

CIDR IP addresses are formatted like IPv4 addresses, but they include a slash (“/’”) followed by a number at the end of the address (192.168.1.100/24) This CIDR address encompasses all IP addresses between 192.168.1.0 and 192.168.1.255.


## Proxy servers
proxy server is a server that fulfills the request of a client by forwarding them on to other servers.

Proxy servers utilize network address translation (NAT) to serve as a barrier between clients on the network and external threats.

It is a dedicated server that sits between the internet and the rest of the network.

It is a public IP address that is different from the rest of the private network, which hides the private network's IP address from malicious actors.

- Forward Proxy server: regulates and restricts a person with access to the internet. To hide the user's IP address.
- Reverse Proxy server: regulates and restricts the internet access to an internal server. To accept traffic from external parties, approve it, and forward it to the internet servers.