## Cloud networks

Cloud computing is the practice of using remote servers, applications, and network services that are hosted on the internet instead of on local physical devices.

**A cloud network is a collection of servers or computers that stores resources and data in a remote data center that can be accessed via the internet.** 

Because companies don't house the servers at their physical location, these servers are referred to as being "in the cloud".

A cloud service provider (CSP) offer an alternative to traditional on-premise networks, and allow organizations to have the benefits of the traditional network without storing the devices and managing the network on their own.

### CSPs provide three main categories of services:
- **Infrastructure as a service** **(IaaS)** refers to the use of virtual computer components offered by the CSP. These include virtual containers and storage that are configured remotely through the CSP’s API or web console.
	- Physical data center
	- Servers networking storage
- **Platform as a service (PaaS)** refers to tools that application developers can use to design custom applications for their company.
	- IaaS + operating systems
	- Database management & development tools
- **Software as a service (SaaS)** refers to software suites operated by the CSP that a company can use remotely without hosting the software.
	- PaaS + Cloud-hosting applications.

The organizations using:
- On-premises
- cloud environment
- hybrid cloud environment
- multi-cloud environment


However, since data is stored in the cloud and accessed over the internet, several challenges arise:

- **Misconfiguration** is one of the biggest concerns. Customers of cloud-based services are responsible for configuring their own security environment. Oftentimes, they use out-of-the-box configurations that fail to address their specific security objectives.
- **Cloud-native breaches** are more likely to occur due to misconfigured services.
- **Monitoring access might be difficult** depending on the client and level of service.
- **Meeting regulatory standards** is also a concern, particularly in industries that are required by law to follow specific requirements such as HIPAA, PCI DSS, and GDPR.


- [The U.K.’s National Cyber Security Centre](https://www.ncsc.gov.uk/collection/cloud/understanding-cloud-services/cloud-security-shared-responsibility-model) has a detailed guide for choosing, using, and deploying cloud services securely based on the shared responsibility model.
    
- [The Cloud Security Alliance®](https://cloudsecurityalliance.org/) is an organization dedicated to creating secure cloud environments. They offer access to cloud security-specific research, certification, and products to users with a paid membership.
    
- [CompTIA Cloud+](https://www.comptia.org/blog/your-next-move-cloud-security-specialist) is a certificate program designed to teach you the foundational skills needed to become a cloud security specialist.