Starting with Yocto
An introduction about Yocto project and how to use it to build a raspberrypi embedded linux kernel

## Linux Embedded system
A linux based embedded system has six main component:
- Bootloader
- Device Tree
- Linux kernel
- System programs
- Application
- Root Filesystem

### Bootloader
The bootloader is stored on ROM on SoC it controls what happened to the system when it is first turn on.

### Device Tree
The device tree is a discription of the physical hardware available to the system.

### Linux Kernel
The Linux kernel is the software that manages the connection between the computer and the hardware resources.

### System progams
The system programs are a set of utilites that allow the application to access the resources provided by the system.

### Application
The application is software which implements the function of the system to the user.

### Root Filesystem
The Root file system is where all of the programes, applications, and configuration files are keept.

## Yocto project
The yocto project is a completely free project provides a platform for developers to create a custom linux based systems for any embedded hardware.

(**It's not an embedded linux distribution, it creates a custom one for you.**)

it's flexibility and suitability for wide range of embedded devices means developers world wide can share and contribute to each others work.

Yocto projet uses different entities to build a linux based system:
- Poky
- BitBake tool
- OpenEmbedded core
- Yocto metadata
- Yocto Board Supported Package (BSP)

### Poky
Poky is a reference distribution of the Yocto project which contains the OpenEmbedded build system, and some metadata to help people learn build their own distribution of Linux

## Start with Yocto
To start with Yocto you have to prepare your host environment and download the Yocto meta data.

### Prepare Host
You have to have a linux distribution to work on, so we will take Ubuntu as our example here.

You can use docker by running:
``` bash
docker run -dit --name ubuntu_18 -v /Users/amr/myworkspace:/home/myworkspace ubuntu:18.04
docker attach ubuntu_18
apt update && apt upgrade -y
apt install sudo git nano vim -y
```
Prepare a user to build the yocto project
``` bash
useradd amr
passwd amr
usermod -aG sudo amr
usermod -aG root amr
usermod -s /bin/bash amr
su - amr
```

So first you have to install the needed packages by running these commands:
``` bash
sudo apt install gawk wget git diffstat unzip texinfo gcc-multilib build-essential
sudo apt install chrpath socat libsdl1.2-dev xterm ncurses-dev lzop
sudo apt install minicom u-boot-tools curl
```
theis are a standard library you can find with the Ubuntu package manager, then you have to install **repo** which Yocto uses to fetch the git repos.
``` bash
mkdir ~/bin
curl http://commondatastorage.googleapis.com/git-repo-downloads/repo > ~/bin/repo
chmod a+x ~/bin/repo
export PATH=$PATH:~/bin
```

Then it is time to configure the Git tool, git is an online storage service that can keep each version of uploaded files or software available.

``` bash
git config --global user.name "username"
git config --global user.email "email@example.com"
```
where **"username"** is your username, and **"email@example.com"** is your email.

### Download Yocto

To download Yocto you have to take care about the version, because version 3 and above has major difference than version 2.

we will yocto version 3.4 (HONISTER) to build a linux image for raspberrypi 3.
so to install yocto layer run this commands:
``` bash
mkdir -p ~/yocto/sources
cd ~/yocto/sources
git clone -b honister git://git.yoctoproject.org/poky.git
```
then we need to download the raspberrypi meta-layer
``` bash
git clone -b honister git://git.yoctoproject.org/meta-raspberrypi
```

### Configure environment

Now we need to configure the build environment, to prepare the host machine to build our custom linux image, Poky has a script for that we just need to call it.
``` bash
cd ~/yocto
source sources/poky/oe-init-build-env rpi-build
```
the script will set the environment varaibles for you and make a new directory by "rpi-build" name for you, and change the current directory to "rpi-build".

### Configure Yocto build

In **rpi-build** directory you will find **conf** directory, this is the folder responsible for configuration for the Yocto build, inside it there are 3 files:
- bblayers.conf
- local.conf
- templateconf.cfg

#### local.conf
We need to configure the local.conf file so specify the build machine and other configuration related to the target, so to do so open the local.conf file on any editor you find information about how it is working, it may be worth reading if you don't sure about what you are doing and then past this txt:

``` script
MACHINE ?= "raspberrypi2"
PREFERRED_VERSION_linux-raspberrypi = "4.%"
DISTRO_FEATURES_remove = "x11 wayland"
DISTRO_FEATURES_append = " systemd"
VIRTUAL-RUNTIME_init_manager = "systemd"
ENABLE_UART = "1"
```

if you are using Yocto above version 3 you need to use this code:
``` script
MACHINE ?= "raspberrypi2"
PREFERRED_VERSION:linux-raspberrypi = "4.%"
DISTRO_FEATURES:remove = "x11 wayland"
DISTRO_FEATURES:append = " systemd"
VIRTUAL-RUNTIME:init_manager = "systemd"
ENABLE_UART = "1"
```

#### bblayers.conf

replace the bblayers.conf file content with the below txt to add the meta-raspberrypi layer to the build.

``` script
LCONF_VERSION = "2"
BBPATH = "${TOPDIR}"
BSPDIR := "${@os.path.abspath(os.path.dirname(d.getVar('FILE', True)) + '/../..')}"

BBFILES ?= ""
BBLAYERS ?= " \
  ${BSPDIR}/sources/poky/meta \
  ${BSPDIR}/sources/poky/meta-yocto \
  ${BSPDIR}/sources/poky/meta-yocto-bsp \
  ${BSPDIR}/sources/meta-raspberrypi \
```

##### init-ifupdown

Now we are ready to configure our build to match the target board which is raspberrypi 3, so if you want to test the interent connection from the raspberrypi just follow the next steps (Optional):
``` bash
cd ~/yocto/surces/poky/meta/recipes-core/init-ifupdown/init-ifupdown-1.0
mkdir raspberrypi3
touch interfaces
```
then copy the next code into the **interfaces** file.
``` bash
# /etc/network/interfaces -- configureation file for ifup(8), ifdown(8)

# The loopbacj interface
auto lo
iface lo inet loopback

# Wireless interfaces
iface wlan0 inet dhcp
        wireless_mode managed
        wireless_essid any
        wpa-driver wext
        wpa-config /etc/wpa_supplicant.conf

iface atml0 inet dhcp

# Wired or wireless interfaces
auto eth0
iface eth0 inet static
        address 192.168.1.2
        netmast 255.255.255.0
        gateway 192.168.1.1
        network 192.168.1.0

# Ethernet/RNDIS gadget (g_ether)
# ... or on host side, usbnet and random hwaddr
iface usb0 inet static
        address 192.168.7.2
        network 255.255.255.0
        netwrok 192.168.7.0
        gateway 192.168.7.1

# Bluetooth networking
iface bnep0 inet dhcp
```
### Bitbake

the build environment should now be ready to creat the image which can be done by using **bitbake** command.

- bitbake is generic task execution engine that performs shell and python tasks depending on the meta-data giving to it.

it will read the collection of files and use them to create each asspect of the linux distripution.

``` bash
bitbake rpi-basic-image
```
to build the image for the raspberrypi

### images

When the build finish, you can flash the images by using **dd** command or **Echer** software to a SDcard

you will find the images in:
``` bash
cd ~/yocto/rpi-build/tmp-glibc/deploy/images/raspberrypi3
```
it will have *.image extension.