The MQ303A sensor is an alcohol gas sensor designed to detect the presence of ethanol and alcohol vapours in the air.

It works by utilising a metal-oxide semiconductor (MOS) sensing element that changes its electrical resistance when exposed to ethanol or alcohol vapours.

## How it works
- **Sensing Mechanism**:
    - The sensor contains a tin dioxide (SnO2) layer on a heating element.
    - In clean air, the sensor has a baseline resistance.
    - When alcohol vapours are present, they react with the oxygen adsorbed on the SnO2 surface, reducing the oxygen concentration. This causes the sensor's resistance to decrease.
- **Heating Element**:
    - The sensor has a built-in heater that requires a specific voltage to maintain an optimal operating temperature. This ensures consistent performance.
- **Output**:
    - The sensor provides an analog output voltage proportional to the ethanol concentration. The higher the alcohol concentration, the lower the resistance, and the higher the output voltage.

## How to use it
The MQ303A sensor uses a **voltage divider circuit**, where the sensor's resistance (Rs) changes depending on the concentration of alcohol.
1. **In Clean Air**:
    - The resistance of the sensor (Rs) is relatively high.
    - This leads to a higher output voltage on the analog pin because more of the input voltage is dropped across the load resistor (RL) in the voltage divider.
2. **When Alcohol Vapours Are Present**:
    - Alcohol reacts with the sensing material, reducing the resistance of the sensor (Rs).
    - A lower sensor resistance means less voltage is dropped across the sensor and more across the load resistor (RL), which **lowers the output voltage**.

### Summary of Behavior:
- **Higher Alcohol Concentration → Lower Sensor Resistance (Rs) → Lower Output Voltage**. -> **Lower ADC reading**

## PinOut

``` md
  ___
 / 2 \  
|1   3|
 \   /
  ---
```
The sensor has 3 pins:
1. VCC (3.3v)
2. Analog pin for sensing
3. Ground


``` cpp
// Read the data from the sensor by resolution of 12 (0-4095)
int sensorValue = analogRead(MQ303A_PIN);
// convert the reading to voltage
float voltage = sensorValue * (3.3 / 4095.0);
Serial.print("Analog Value: "); Serial.print(sensorValue); Serial.print(", Voltage: "); Serial.println(voltage);
```

