# Shell
It is a program which interprets the user commands, there are two flavours of shell

* Login Shell, 
* non-login Shell

## Login Shell
Login Shells uses those directories:

```bash
* ~/.bash_history     # has the history of commands.
* ~/.bashrc           # execute with a new shell for set up custom environment variables.
* ~/.profile 	     # System startup file -- has the user configuration.
```

## Non-Login Shell
it uses the same directories which login shells use, plus
``` shell
 /etc/bash.bashrc
```


## Shell types

Bourne Shell (sh) was one of the originals that released in 1979, then 
Bash Shell (Bourne Again SHell) was created as a replacement for Bourne with features from ksh and csh.

1. Bourne shell,
2. (bash) Bourne-Again Shell
3. (csh) C shell
4. (tcsh) Enhanced C shell
5. (ksh) Korn Shell
6. (zsh) Z shell
7. (fish) Friendly Shell

All used types can find at:
```bash
/etc/shells
```

To know the default you can do:
```bash
vi /etc/passwd or echo $SHELL
```

To change the Shell type:
``` bash
zsh
```
Or permanently:
``` shell
chsh -s /usr/bin/zsh
```
## Shell configuration

Shell commands type
1. internal commands
2. external commands
3. Aliases commands

### Shell commands
#### Type
```bash
type <command name>  # to know the type of command if it is internal or external or an alias
```
#### Alias
```bash
alias
alias <alias name>=”<the existed command>”
unalias <alias name>
```
#### Noclobber
```bash
set -o noclobber  # to prevent the shell from overwriting the existing roles or files Can force it by using >| sign.
Set +o noclobber # to allow the shell to overwrite the existing roles or file
```


## Bourne Again Shell

Bourne Again Shell (Bash) is the default shell for most Linux distributions. When you open the terminal, bash is present for you to enter commands. Before bash, some shells like sh, ksh, and csh had different capabilities. Bash came as an enhanced replacement for these shells, borrowing capabilities from all of them. This means that it has many of the features of these old shells and some of its unique abilities. Some of the key features provided by bash are listed below:

- Bash is a widely used shell with scripting capabilities.
- It offers a tab completion feature, which means if you are in the middle of completing a command, you can press the tab key on your keyboard. It will automatically complete the command based on a possible match or give you multiple suggestions for completing it.
- Bash keeps a history file and logs all of your commands. You can use the up and down arrow keys to use the previous commands without typing them again. You can also type `history` to display all your previous commands.

## Friendly Interactive Shell

Friendly Interactive Shell (Fish) is also not default in most Linux distributions. As its name suggests, it focuses more on user-friendliness than other shells. Some of the key features provided by fish are listed below:

- It offers a very simple syntax, which is feasible for beginner users.
- Unlike bash, it has auto spell correction for the commands you write.
- You can customize the command prompt with some cool themes using fish.
- The syntax highlighting feature of fish colors different parts of a command based on their roles, which can improve the readability of commands. It also helps us to spot errors with their unique colors.
- Fish also provides scripting, tab completion, and command history functionality like the shells mentioned in this task.

## Z Shell

Z Shell (Zsh) is not installed by default in most Linux distributions. It is considered a modern shell that combines the functionalities of some previous shells. Some of the key features provided by zsh are listed below:

- Zsh provides advanced tab completion and is also capable of writing scripts.
- Just like fish, it also provides auto spell correction for the commands.
- It offers extensive customization that may make it slower than other shells.
- It also provides tab completion, command history functionality, and several other features.

|Feature|Bash|Fish|Zsh|
|---|---|---|---|
|Full Name|The full form of Bash is Bourne Again Shell.|The full form of Fish is Friendly Interactive Shell.|The full form of Zsh is Z Shell.|
|Scripting|It offers widely compatible scripting with extensive documentation available.|It has limited scripting features as compared to the other two shells.|It offers an excellent level of scripting, combining the traditional capabilities of Bash shell with some extra features.|
|Tab completion|It has a basic tab completion feature.|It offers advanced tab completion by giving suggestions based on your previous commands.|Its tab completion capability can be extended heavily by using plugins.|
|Customization|Basic level of customization.|It offers some good customization through interactive tools.|Advanced customization through oh-my-zsh framework.|
|User friendliness|It is less user-friendly, but being a traditional and widely used shell, its users are quite familiar and comfortable with it.|It is the most user-friendly shell.|It can be highly user-friendly with proper customization.|
|Syntax highlighting|The syntax highlighting feature is not available in this shell.|The syntax highlighting is built-in to this shell.|The syntax highlighting can be used with this shell by introducing some plugins.|