shell pipes and redirection is the most basic tool you need to know to start your shell scripting and it can be applied on all major shells in the sh lineage (include bash and ksh, but not csh or tcsh), regardless of the exact platform you are using.

The Pipe character `|` sends the output of one command to the input of another command, which can chain commands together based on standard input/output streams.

## Redirection
Every process has at least three communication channels available to it:

- The standard input (STDIN)
- The standard out (STDOUT)
- The standard error (STDERR)

Unix has a unified I/O model in which each channel is named with a small integer called a file descriptor.

So the file descriptor for the standard communication channels are:

- STDIN = 0
- STDOUT = 1
- STDERR = 2

### Redirect from STD to file
The shell interprets the symbols ‘>’, ‘<‘, and ‘>>’ as instructions for rerouting a command input or output to or from file.
```bash
$ echo "Test message" > /tmp/messages
```
It will redirect the STDOUT command **echo** to save its output to **/tmp/messages** file, so it will create a file in **/tmp** directory with **messages** name and write **Test message** in it, and if the file exists, it will clear all data inside it and then write **Test message** in it.

And if you used this

```bash
$ echo "Test message" >> /tmp/messages
```
It will only create the file if it does not exist, and then add **Test message** in it, and if the file exists it will append the message to its content.

```bash
mail -s "Mail test" AmrAbdelghafar < /tmp/messages
```
This will send mail the content of **/tmp/messages** to the user AmrAbdelghfar.

### Redirect to STD
To redirect the STDUOT and STDERR to the same place use ‘>&’ symbol, but to redirect the STDERR only, use ‘2>’

So the > only to redirect to file, but **>&** to redirect to **STDOUT >&1** or **STDERR >&2**

```bash
$ # This will redirect to STDERR
$ echo "Error Message" >&2
$ # This will redirect the output to STDOUT
$ echo "Information message" >&1
```
You can use the redirecting with the find command to get only your requested search output rather than error messages if you are trying to search on a directory and you don’t have permission to access it, like the root directory for example.

```bash
$ # This will result in a lot of Permission denied error
$ find / -name "test"
$ # But this will result in only the result that you can access
$ find / -name "test" 2>/dev/null
```
So here we redirect the error to /dev/null which is nothing, to just get the right result.

For more information about the redirecting, you can visit the [gnu bach docs](https://web.archive.org/web/20210506145246/http://www.gnu.org/savannah-checkouts/gnu/bash/manual/bash.html#Redirections)