## Cat
Concatenate command is to display the contents of one or more text files on the terminal

``` bash
cat /etc/ssh/sshd_config
```

## Head
shows the first 10 lines of a specified file, but you can change it by `-n` parameter
``` bash
head -n 3 /var/log/apache2/access.log
```

## Tail
shows the last 10 lines of a specified file, but you can change it by `-n` parameter
``` bash
tail -n 3 /var/log/auth.log
```

## Sort
sorts the contents of a given file alphabetically

``` bash
cat names.txt
Bob
Charlie
Alice

sort names.txt
Alice
Bob
Charlie
```

## Uniq
filters out consecutive duplicate lines from a file and shows the unique lines
``` bash
uniq names.txt

# You can compine it with sort like
sort names.txt | uniq
```

## Wc
(word count) command quickly determines how large a file is or how much data it contains.

``` bash
wc /etc/passwd
46   67 2544 /etc/passwd
```

46 :Number of lines
67  :Number of words
2544 :Number of characters
/etc/passwd: File path

- -l : Displays only the number of lines.
- -w : Displays only the number of words.
- -c : Displays only the number of bytes.
- -m : Displays only the num

## Sed
(stream editor) command is a tool capable of performing various text edits such as processing, modifying, adding, deleting, or replacing texts between files.
``` bash
cat names.txt
Alice
Charlie
Bob

sed 's/Alice/George/' names.txt
George
Charlie
Bob
```
the name **`Alice`** in `names.txt` is replaced with `George` using the `sed` command. However, note that the `sed` command only prints the change to the screen and does not save it to the file.

## Awk
awk command is designed for text and data processing tasks, and it is especially effective when working with column-based data.

It reads files line by line, splits each line into fields (columns), and processes them based on specified conditions

``` bash
cat names.txt
John Doe
Emily Clark
Alex Turner

awk '{print $1}' names.txt
John
Emily
Alex
```