Linux Fils system (FS),
Every thing in Linux is a File, this means that much of the interaction with the kernel occurs via reading/writing files, devices are accessed similar to files, like /dev/ttyUSB0 for USB serial port.
Common open, manipulate, close paradigm shared with files and devices.

Files in linux are represented by paths:
- Absolute "/path/to/file" = from root of filesystem
- Relative "path/to/file" = from working directory

Files are referenced and accessed by Inode in linux
## Inode
Inode is index node, which is a metadata used to track files on disk, and it is includes timestamp, owner (UID, GID), size, mode (access permission), location.
It is fixed size = 128 byte (filename is not included).

So to map a file name to a file node we use directories

## Directories
It is mapping human readable names to Inode numbers.
They are just files with their own inodes containing mapping of names to inodes, which start at the root directory `/`

And this enable by definition of design multiple names to resolve the same Inode, and links redirect two files/directories paths to the same Inode.

## Links `->`
To list links to file you can use
``` basjh
ls -l
```
- Hard link: that map directly to Inodes, only allowed on the same filesystem.
- Soft links (symbolic, symlinks): that map to filenames, work across filesystems, can be broken.


## Files Permissions

3 Levels of permission - User, Group and EveryOne
Use ls -l to show permission info
- Owner
- Group
- Others
Owner-Group-Others

use chown to change the owner and the group

### Permissions
- Execute = 1 (+x)
- Write = 2 (+r)
- Read = 4 (+w)

use chmod to change permissions
``` bash
chmod 766 helloworld.sh
```

## Special Files
Which is mapping the hardware devices to the 'Everything is a file' paradigm.
So Kernel objects represented as files:
- Character Device
- Block Device
- Named Pipes
- Sockets
### Character Device
It is a device you use when it has a linear queue of bytes, like Keyboard.

### Block Device
When you accessing array of bytes at once (addressable in a sector), like Hard disk
Smallest unit addressable is a block, which is a power of two multiple of sector size.
Sector size is 512 bytes

### Named Pipes/Sockets
It is used in the interprocess communication

## Filesystem Types
They are a collocation of files in a hierarchy, specific types supported, which is tied to storage types:
- NFS (network file storage)
- ext4 (block device storage)
- fat (Microsoft defined storage format for disks)

You can Mount and Unmounted to add/remove from the root filesystem.

## Linux Blocks/Sectors
Consider a 1TB Filesystem which is 1,000,000,000,000 bytes, so address every byte individually you will need 0x3B98CCA00 bytes, 34 bits required to address individually.

So it is more logic and performance enhancement to use Sectors rather than Blocks.

So for Sector with 34 bits to address each byte and 512 byte blocks per sector it will need 1,963,125,00(0x746a5288) blocks which is 30 bits required to access each block.

And with 4K blocks, it will be 244,140,625 (0xE8G4A51) blocks, with 28 bits required to access each block.

## Creates file and Folders 
```bash
# to create file
touch filename
# to create folder (directory)
mkdir dirname
# to make a device file
# mknod <name> <type> <major>
## Null device is major 1 and minor 3
## Console device is major 5 and minor 1
mknod <
```

## Files I/O
Files are opened via file descriptors (fd) which are integers, and kernel maintains a Per-process list of files in file table, and they are indexed by fds.

Every process has at least 3 file descriptors opened:
- stdin (fd 0 or STDIN_FILENO) (terminal input device)
- stdout (fd 1 or STDOUT_FILENO) terminal display
- stderr (fd 2 or STDERR_FILENO) treminal_display

### Opening and Accessing files
- open() (possibly with O_CREAT)
- read()
- write()
- close()

> It is not fopen(), fwrite(), fread().
> `f` prefix related to buffered I/O, not the system calls, the non `f` functions are the system calls functions

#### Buffered I/O - fopen() vs open()
They are the `f` prefix functions from `stdio.h` which are a user space functions that buffer the output from the system call function `read()` for example to reduce the system calls to kernel.

##### open()
open() function maps pathname to file descriptor (return fd) and include open flags argument:
- Access:
	- read only
	- read/write create append
	- synchronous I/O , etc...
- Mode argument:
	- read, write, execute permissions for user/group/other.

##### read()
it takes the file descriptor from open and returns:
- Bytes read
	- value < count means no more bytes are available (You reached the end of the file or read has been interrupted by signal)
- -1 on Error with errno
``` c
int fd=open(filename,
		   O_RDWR | O_CREATE,
		   S_IRWXU | S_IRWXG | S_IRWXO);
```
This will make a blocking open process which you need to wait until there is a data available to continue.
But you can make a non block open by
``` c
int fd=open(filename, 
			O_RDONLY | block ? O_CREAT | O_RDWR : O_NONBLOCK,
			S_IRWXU | S_IRWXG | S_IRWXO)
```
and then you can check for EAGAIN to see if data is available
##### UMASK
it is a universal mask to restrict permissions set on created files. (& ~umask)
``` bash
$ umask
0002
```
this means that it will prevent any user to make the `other` read or write
it is a bit wise mask on.
You can edit the umask
``` bash 
umask 0003
```

##### STRACE
it is a handy too for debugging application interaction with the kernel through syscall.
``` bash
strace ./executable
```
> It does not need the source code, it reads in running time.

##### write()
``` c
#include <unistd.h>
ssize_t write(int fd, const void *buf, size_t count);
```
it writes up to count bytes from the buffer, and it will return number of bytes written.

> Write does not writing directly to disk it is writing into kernel buffer because Disks are slow.

So unclean shutdown can damage the unwritten dat.
To avoid that use:
fsync(), fdatasync(), or O_SYNC at open function to force the syncing process.
or Configure the disk write caching to report write successfully when the data on the disk.