The linux kernel is the software responsible for optimally managing the embedded system's hardware resources.

It offers a range of services that perform a variety of essential functions for the operating system such as:
- Process management
- Process scheduling (Task schedulers)
- Inter-process communication (IPC)
	- By sockets or shared memory
- Memory management
- I/O management (device drivers)
- File system
- Networking
	- Network management (Network Protocol, device drivers)
- And more...


## Architecture

```mermaid
block-beta
columns 1
block:UserSpace
 columns 1
  a["Application"]
  SP["System Programs"]
end

block:KernelSpace
 columns 1
  block:MonolithicKernel
   columns 2
	SCI["System Call \n Interface"] space
	PM["Process \n Management"]
	VS["Virtual file \n System"]
	MM["Memory \n Management"]
	NM["Network \n Management"]
	DD["Device Drivers"]
  end
 LM["Loadable Module"]
end
```

Linux kernel adopts a layered operating system architecture, the operating system is divided into two layers:
- User space
- Kernel space
User space and kernel space are different address spaces.
Kernel space is delivering the basic services by a single executable (Monolithic Kernel), but this services can be extended at run-time by using the **loadable Kernel modules**.

Advantage:
- Good separation between application/system programs and kernel.
- Bugs in the user space do not corrupt the kernel.
Disadvantage:
- Bugs in one kernel component (e.g. a new device driver) can crash the whole system.


Kernel is responsible for:
- Manage Resources
- Interface with Hardware
	- Access to all memory addresses
	- Access to all CPU registers
- Provides an API for user space programs.

Linux interaction has two ways:
- From the User space by system calls
- From the hardware by interrupt for the device driver.

Linux Kernel Development:
- Linus Torvalds' Kernel tree:
> https://git.kernel.org/pub/scm/linux/kernel/git/torvalds/linux.git

Linux Kernel is GPLv2 license, so if you use the kernel you have to make the source code available.

You may need to share the source code for custom kernel module. (Probably)

## Kernel Directories
- **Arch**: architecture specific files
- **Documentation**
- **drivers**: Hardware support, loadable modules
- **fs**: filesystem
- **include**: `#include` from user/kernel space
- **init**: system initialisation
- **kernel**: core functions - scheduling, locking, timers
- **mm**: Memory Management
- **net**: Network protocols
- **scripts**
- **tools**

## Building Kernel
To build the linux kernel you can use the KConfig
### KConfig
it is a text formated file to control the kernel configuration.
you can find it in `drivers/char/Kconfig`
``` 
menu "Character devices"
[...]
config DEVMEM
	bool "dev/mem virtual device support"
	defautl y
	help
		Say Y here if you want to support the /dev/mem device/
[...]
endmenu
```
There are multiple graphical tool to modify kernel configuration using KConfig files, one of them `make menuconfig`
 you can run it at kernel tree.
 The changes from KConfig are saved in `.config` file in flag format like `CONFIG_DEVMEM=y`

#### KConfig Options
KConfig/menuconfig allows you to specify 3 modes of most drivers:
- Off ` `: not built/included
- On `*`: built in to the kernel
- Module `M`: loadable at runtime

