# What is IoT?
IoT is an extension of the internet into the physical world
Connecting everyday things embedded with electronics, software and sensors to the internet enabling them to collect and exchange data.

## What things mean?
Things in IoT domain means latterly anything like, we can connect your house keylock to the light to the AC and you can still manage all of them via platform.

## Why do we need IoT?
We need IoT to expand our interdependence to interact, contribute, and collaborate to things around us. 


## IoT is segmented by:
- B2C-Busnies to Customer IoT
	- Consumer
- B2B-Busnies to Busnies IoT
	- Commercial
	- Industrial
	- Infrastructural

## IoT products
- Smart (It is only an Embedded device that is alone does not create much value)
- Connected (Which just for ex your washing machine to your smart phone)
- IoT (Which is the device that utilise the Internet)

## Business View
The business view of IoT data segmented into 4 parts depends on either collecting data or transforming it into useful information.
- Software-defined product
- hardware-defined product
- Network fabric
- External system interface


### Software-defined product (SDP)
is both the heart and the brain of the IoT product, it is the virtual representation of the physical product. so some times it called the **Digital Twin** because it is the virtual equivalent of the physical product.
It consisted of 2 models:
- The Cyber Model
- The Application

It is a key source of differentiation between the IoT product and the connected product or smart product, because it is the brain of a robotic vacuum, like a Roomba or a Neat, while at its core, it's still a vacuum, all the intelligence has been centralized into the brain.

#### Trio of Value
- The Cyber Model
- The Application
- Analytics

##### The cyber model
is the central to the IoT product as both the application and the analytics use it to generate value.

The software defined products cybermodel is represented with statistics to get expectation behaviour of the real world physical thing.

Like. clothes dryer at home once we represent it mathematically with a cybermodel we can recognise it to solve for drying clothes for the least amount of time, or drying clothes for the least amount of electricity.