IoT does not have a single architecture, which is agreed universally, because it is heavily depend on the requirements and the needs from the system it self.

## Basic Architecture

- Perception Layer: Sensors and environment information.
- Network Layer: Connecting smart things, network devices and servers.
- Application Layer: Application specific services to the user.

These layers can also be expanded to be five layers architecture

- Perception Layer: Sensor and environment information
- Transport Layer: Transfer the sensor data between different layers through network.
- Processing Layer: Store, analyses, and process the data.
- Application layer: Delivering application specific services to the user.
- Business Layer: Manage the whole IoT system, including applications, business and profit models, and user privacy.
## Cloud computing in IoT
In some systems architectures the data processing is done in a large centralized fashion on cloud.

- Perception Layer
- Network Layer
- Cloud Layer
- Application Layer

> Cloud centric architecture keeps the cloud at the center, application above it, and the network of smart things below it

## Fog Computing in IoT
Fog architecture presents a layered approach, which inserts monitoring, preprocessing, storage. and security layers between the physical and transport layers.

- Physical Layer
	- Monitoring Layer: monitors power, resources, responses, and services
	- Pre-processing Layer: performs filtering, processing, and analytics of sensor data.
	- Storage Layer: Temporary storage layer provides storage functionalities as data replication, distribution, and storage.
	- Security Layer: performs encryption/decryption and ensures data integrity and privacy.
- Transport Layer
- Cloud Layer
- Application Layer

>Monitoring and pre-processing are done on the edge of the network before sending data to the cloud.

## IoT Taxonomy
The key layers that present in most architecture are:
- Perception: Collects data using various types of sensors.
- Preprocessing: Filter & summarize data before sending it on network.
- Communication: Different entities communicate over network using different protocols & standards.
- Middleware: Creates abstraction such as hiding hardware details.
- Applications: Various application that improves user experience & increases efficiency.