## Firewall
A firewall is a network security device that monitors traffic to and from your network.

It either allows traffic or it blocks it based on a defined set of security rules by port filtering 
- Hardware firewall: the most basic way to defend against threats to a network.
- Software firewall makes the same functions as a hardware, but not a physical device, instead it is a software installed on a computer or a server.
- FaaS (Firewall as a service): cloud based firewalls that are hosted by a cloud service provider.

### Stateful or Stateless
Refers to how the firewall operates
- stateful: the firewall keeps track of information passing through it and proactively filters out threats.
- Stateless: the firewall operate based on predefined rules and does not keep tracking of the information from the data packets.

### Next generation Firewall (NGFW)
it provide more security than stateful firewall, it provide stateful inspection of incoming and outgoing traffic, and more in-depth security like deep packet inspection and intrusion protection.
it can also connect to cloud-based threat intelligence services to update and protect against emerging cyber threats.

### **WAF (Web Application Firewall)**
A WAF sits between your web request and the web server; its primary purpose is to protect the webserver from hacking or denial of service attacks. It analyses the web requests for common attack techniques, whether the request is from a real browser rather than a bot. It also checks if an excessive amount of web requests are being sent by utilising something called rate limiting, which will only allow a certain amount of requests from an IP per second. If a request is deemed a potential attack, it will be dropped and never sent to the webserver.

### Load balancers
When a website's traffic starts getting quite large or is running an application that needs to have high availability, one web server might no longer do the job. Load balancers provide two main features, ensuring high traffic websites can handle the load and providing a failover if a server becomes unresponsive.
When you request a website with a load balancer, the load balancer will receive your request first and then forward it to one of the multiple servers behind it.
The load balancer uses different algorithms to help it decide which server is best to deal with the request. 
A couple of examples of these algorithms are **round-robin**, which sends it to each server in turn, or **weighted**, which checks how many requests a server is currently dealing with and sends it to the least busy server.


### CDN (Content Delivery Networks)
A CDN can be an excellent resource for cutting down traffic to a busy website. It allows you to host static files from your website, such as JavaScript, CSS, Images, Videos, and host them across thousands of servers all over the world. When a user requests one of the hosted files, the CDN works out where the nearest server is physically located and sends the request there instead of potentially the other side of the world.

## VPN, Zones
Virtual Private Network (VPN) is a network security service that changes your public IP address and hides your virtual location. by creating a dedicated path between each other over the Internet (known as a tunnel). Devices connected within this tunnel form their own private network.

So that you can keep your data private when you are using a public network like internet.

It **encrypt** your data as it travel across the internet to preserve confidentiality.

Also performing **encapsulation** which is a process performed by a VPN service that protects your data by wrapping sensitive data in other data packets.

It uses an encrypted tunnel between your device and the VPN server which is unhackable wihtout a cryptographic key.

- Remote Access: it is between personal device and VPN server through internet.
- Site-to-Site: Enterprise use it to extend their network to other networks and location. IPSec protocol is commonly used in the site-to-site.
- WireGuard VPN: it high speed VPN protocol with advanced encryption, Used in site-to-site and Remote access (Client-server connections). (Open-Source).
- IPSec VPN: Most VPN providers use IPSec to encrypt and authenticate data packets. One of the earlier VPN protocols, more complex.
  
VPN technology has improved over the years. Let's explore some existing VPN technologies below:

| **VPN Technology** | **Description**                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |
| ------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| PPP                | This technology is used by PPTP (explained below) to allow for authentication and provide encryption of data. VPNs work by using a private key and public certificate (similar to **SSH**). A private key & certificate must match for you to connect.<br><br>This technology is not capable of leaving a network by itself (non-routable). |
| PPTP               | The **P**oint-to-**P**oint **T**unneling **P**rotocol (**PPTP**) is the technology that allows the data from PPP to travel and leave a network. <br><br>PPTP is very easy to set up and is supported by most devices. It is, however, weakly encrypted in comparison to alternatives.                                                       |
| IPSec              | Internet Protocol Security (IPsec) encrypts data using the existing **I**nternet **P**rotocol (**IP**) framework.<br><br>IPSec is difficult to set up in comparison to alternatives; however, if successful, it boasts strong encryption and is also supported on many devices.                                                             |

### Security Zones
A segment of a network that protects the internal network from the internet.

Part of security technique called network segmentation.

Organization network divided in to subnets and it has 2 types:
- Uncontrolled Zone: Any network outside of the organization's control.
- Controlled Zone: A subnet that protects the internal network from the uncontrolled zone.
	- Demilitarized Zone (DMZ): contains the public-facing services that can access the internet. (Web servers, DNS servers, proxy servers, email, and files servers, ...)
	- Internal Network: Contains the private servers and data that the organization needs to protect.
		- Restricted Zone: it is inside the internal network with higher confidential infromation that is only accessible to specific employess.

### Subnet
is the subdivision of a network into logical groups, it works like network inside a network.
Subnetting is one component of creating isolated subnetworks through physical isolation, routing configuration, and firewalls.

Classful addressing was used in the 1980s as a system of grouping IP addresses into classes (Class A to Class E), Each class included a limited number of IP addresses, which were depleted as the number of devices connecting to the internet outgrew the classful range in the 1990s

Classless Inter-Domain Routing (CIDR) is a method of assigning subnet masks to IP addresses to create a subnet. Classless addressing replaces classful addressing. Classless CIDR addressing expanded the number of available IPv4 addresses.

CIDR IP addresses are formatted like IPv4 addresses, but they include a slash (“/’”) followed by a number at the end of the address (192.168.1.100/24) This CIDR address encompasses all IP addresses between 192.168.1.0 and 192.168.1.255.


## Proxy servers
proxy server is a server that fulfills the request of a client by forwarding them on to other servers.

Proxy servers utilize network address translation (NAT) to serve as a barrier between clients on the network and external threats.

It is a dedicated server that sits between the internet and the rest of the network.

It is a public IP address that is different from the rest of the private network, which hides the private network's IP address from malicious actors.

- Forward Proxy server: regulates and restricts a person with access to the internet. To hide the user's IP address.
- Reverse Proxy server: regulates and restricts the internet access to an internal server. To accept traffic from external parties, approve it, and forward it to the internet servers.