Google Test is a C++ unit testing framework that allows developers to write and run automated tests for their C++ code. 

It provides a simple and flexible syntax for defining test cases and test suites, as well as a wide range of assertions for verifying the correctness of test results.

We can add the library in the code like this `#include <gtest/gtest.h>`.

1. **Defining test cases:** Developers define test cases by writing test code that exercises the functionality of the code under test. Test cases are organized into test suites, which are collections of related test cases.
    
2. **Writing assertions:** Developers use Google test’s assertion macros to write test code that checks the expected behavior of the code under test. The assertion macros compare expected results with actual results and report any failures.
    
3. **Running tests:** Developers use the Google test framework to run the defined test cases. The framework reports the results of the tests, including any failures, and provides statistics on test coverage.

``` cpp
#include <gtest/gtest.h>

bool IsEven(int num) {
  return num % 2 == 0;
}

TEST(TestingCode, IsEvenTest) {
  ASSERT_TRUE(IsEven(4));    // Assertion succeeds since 4 is even
  ASSERT_FALSE(IsEven(7));   // Assertion succeeds since 7 is not even
  ASSERT_TRUE(IsEven(5));    // Assertion fails since 5 is not even
}

int main(int argc, char* argv[]) {
    testing::InitGoogleTest(&argc, argv);
    return RUN_ALL_TESTS();
}
```

**Line 1:** Including the necessary header file `gtest.h`, which contains the Google test framework’s functionality.

**Lines 3–5:** The function, `IsEven`, takes an integer `num` as a parameter and checks if it is even. It returns true if the number is even and false otherwise.

**Lines 7–10:** This block defines a test case named `IsEvenTest` inside the `TestingCode` test suite. It contains three assertions using the `ASSERT_TRUE` and `ASSERT_FALSE` macros provided by Google Test.

- The first assertion checks if `IsEven(4)` returns true. Since `4` is even, the assertion succeeds.
- The second assertion checks if `IsEven(7)` returns false. Since `7` is not even, the assertion succeeds.
- The third assertion checks if IsEven(5) returns true. Since `5` is not even, the assertion fails.